Home page
The Barrier Reef Orchestra was formed in Townsville in 2000 after a workshop conducted by Richard McIntyre from Canberra. Over the past 15 years it has gone from strength to strength and now presents three main concerts a year, as well as smaller concerts such as the children’s concert Peter and the Wolf in 2014. We are a community orchestra, drawing players from a large cross section of the Townsville community and sometimes beyond. All are drawn together by their great love of orchestral music and desire to provide North Queensland with quality performances. Depending on the program up to 50 musicians play a wide ranging repertoire which has included some of the great orchestral compositions such as the New World Symphony by Dvorak and most of the Beethoven symphonies as well as Tchaikovsky and Bizet. 
An outstanding performance of Beethoven’s 9th Symphony presented to a sell-out audience was recently followed by Peter Sculthorpe’s Mangroves, collaboration with audio-visual artists, ABC radio and Umbrella Studios. The programs are testament to the orchestra’s willingness to embrace mainstream classical repertoire as well as opportunities for collaboration. 
An outstanding performance of Beethoven’s 9th Symphony presented to a sell-out audience, won the Townsville City Council Arts Award for best musical production in 2011. This was recently followed by performing Peter Sculthorphe’s Mangroves, a collaboration with audio-visual artists, performing on ABC radio and at Umbrella Studios. Another recent highlight was playing with James Morrison for the second time to present Latin Fiesta, which was originally done with the Western Australian Orchestra. 
In 2015 the orchestra was invited to perform in three festivals, joining with the AFCM to present a free public concert in Queens Garden the 1812 Dancenorth at Jezzine Barracks for Twilight and featured in World Music as part of the Townsville Civic Theatre music season. This was a first for the orchestra - underscoring its value to the community and highlighting its continued prominence in the cultural soundscape of North Queensland. 
Now to 2016 which is going to be a stellar year for your Orchestra. Already we have our three major concerts which will include opera, featuring Paul Tabone born in Ingham, but now working the international stage as a tenor based in Italy. Rachmaninov’s Piano Concerto No.2 featuring last year’s winner of the instrumental section of the ACVC, Arthur Athan. Our opening performance titled Dreams and Dances is sure to have some favourites such as Afternoon of a Fawn by Debussy. 
We are also pleased to be part of the Townsville 150 Concert where we will share the stage with the likes of David Campbell, Luke Kennedy, Bronwyn Douglas and the 1 RAR Band just to name a few of the guests. We will be back to Queens Gardens for a repeat performance as part of AFCM due to the huge popularity of last year’s concert.

News
The Barrier Reef Orchestra is in a sound financial position with concert attendance and revenue from tickets up for 2013. 
The Orchestra performed on six occasions over the last 12 months. This included a children’s concert at Riverway featuring music from Harry Potter and Peter and the Wolf. The concert was well received by the audience and the Orchestra got into the mood by dressing up appropriately for their musical characters. 
Masterworks conducted by Mark Sheills and featuring the 2013 Australian Concerto and Vocal Competition winner was performed in September with a follow up performance in the Burdekin. Sadly the Burdekin concert was not well attended despite the best efforts in advertising and extra signage. 
Last Night of the Proms was performed in November and conducted by Richard McIntyre. As expected the audience join in with the antics. 
The New Year saw the successful season launch at the Pier Restaurant and featured our new harp much to the enjoyment of those present. The Mayor of Townsville, Councillor Jenny Hill, officially launched the 2015 season and spoke of the importance of the Barrier Reef Orchestra to Townsville. Not long after that was Sounds of Romance conducted by Raymond Yong. The issue of parking problems were extreme and the matter was taken up with Council. Hopefully there will not be a repeat performance. 
The Orchestra was invited to open the Townsville Arts Awards with a cameo performance of the music from Frozen much to the audiences’ pleasure, particularly with the AV accompaniment. The Barrier Reef Orchestra will conduct the second Conducting Workshop at the end of May as it was so successful in 2013. 
For the rest of the year there is our support to the AFCM concert, our World Music Concert commissioned by the Civic Theatre (a first for BRO), support to Dancenorth with their Twilight performances and lastly a Musical Feast for November. 
To make all of this happen there is a dynamic and committed committee working away to bring this all together. I thank them all for their magnificent work. My thanks also goes to our major sponsor the Townsville City Council, our generous benefactors and to the Orchestra Manager Sally Frewen-Lord who has found time to run a survey for the musicians to get some feedback on how we do business. Thank you all. 
Jeff Nielsen has reworked our website and taken great steps forward in producing a functional and relevant website. Jeff is handing it over to the next person to continue the good work, Thanks Jeff. I will be introducing life members later as a way of marking the Barrier Reef Orchestra’s 15th Anniversary. 
The Barrier Reef Orchestra has taken the opportunity to be directly involved with the development of the TPAC proposal. I see it as necessary support to all of the arts organisations to promote the need for more performance spaces in Townsville and I would urge you all to visit the website and help spread the word. Simon has injected himself into this project with the usual eye for detail while keeping appraised of the macro developments in Townsville. Thanks Simon for your energy and incisive views on this important project. 
The 15th anniversary year of BRO has been marked by several approaches to the Orchestra to perform in support of other arts organisations. I take this as a sign of confidence others see in our Orchestra and acceptance of the Barrier Reef Orchestra as Townsville’s resident cultural cornerstone to orchestral music. A fitting milestone for the 15th year of the Barrier Reef Orchestra.
People
Special Guests 
Mark Shiell 
(Conductor)
Mark has guest-conducted ensembles including the Melbourne Symphony Orchestra, West Australian Symphony, Moscow Symphony Orchestra, State Academic Symphony Orchestra of St. Petersburg, Victorian Opera, Orchestra Ensemble Kanazawa, Canberra Symphony Orchestra, Sydney Sinfonia, Melbourne Youth Orchestra, University of Melbourne Symphony Orchestra and the Orchestras of the State Music Camps in Melbourne and Adelaide. 
Currently he serves as Artistic Director and Principal Conductor of Zelman Symphony Orchestra, the Ballarat Symphony and the Macquarie Philharmonia. 
His love of community and youth music has kept him busy contributing to the growth and development of important initiatives in both of these areas here in Australia. Most recently, Mark developed a Regional Orchestra Weekend for ensembles from across Victoria to meet and perform together, with the aim to make this an annual event. 
Mark is also passionate about the education and training of future conductors, and has been frequently involved as a guest teacher of the Masters of Conducting students at the Melbourne Conservatorium in 2015.
 Orchestra image
Adam Lopez 
(Vocal)	
Adam Lopez’s exceptional vocal artistry has paved opportunities to perform backing vocals for some of the biggest names in the music industry such as Mariah Carey, Keith Urban and The Coors. His most recent noted collaboration was headlining with Australian Jazz legend James Morrison in a string of Symphonic Concerts in Perth, Hobart and Brisbane. 
His discography includes an eclectic collection of genres spanning from Pop-Opera, Pop, Rhythm & Blues, Jazz, Power Ballads and Fiery Latin! 
His phenomenal vocal range smashed two Guinness World Records (one note above the range of a piano!) 
This achievement has astounded audiences from all around the world leading him to perform and appear on international television and radio stations in Japan, Spain, Italy, Korea, Hong Kong and the USA. 
Adam Lopez has undoubtedly got one of the most fascinating vocal instruments on the planet. He delighted audiences when he sang in Townsville with the Barrier Orchestra in 2012 along with Sean O’Boyle and James Morrison.
Domenico Taraborrelli 
(Accordion)	
Domenico is one of Brisbane’s most experienced and versatile multicultural entertainers. He has performed in almost every possible style since he commenced his musical career in 1971 at age 4. He studied music on the traditional European instrument called the Piano Accordion and this is still his chosen instrument, although he also now uses the latest electronic midi accordion which incorporates other built in instruments. 
Domenico moved from three piece cabaret bands to a more sophisticated five piece band, the Latin Mafia which performs swing and Latin classics from the Rat Pack era. 
He has performed in many venues from QPAC with the Queensland Pops Orchestra to being runners up with his Celtic Band, Murphy’s Pigs at the Tamworth Golden Fiddle Awards.
Raymond Yong 
Conductor	
Raymond Yong was born in Malaysia, immigrating to Australia at the age of two. He received his initial musical training in Perth, performing regularly in public piano recitals from an early age. It was in High School that he first took to the podium as a conductor, directing his school orchestra and choir. 
Raymond went on to study conducting at the University of Melbourne as a pupil of the late John Hopkins and received further training in the Symphony Australia Young Development Programme. He became the Music Director of the Victorian Youth Symphony Orchestra and Victoria Chorale and was the Founding Director of Orchestra 21. 
He has appeared as Guest Conductor for the Melbourne Chamber Orchestra, the Port Fairy Music Festival, Stonington Symphony, Preston Symphony, and Kooyong Chamber Players. He has been a regular guest with the barrier Reef Orchestra since 2011, conducting the orchestra, performing as a piano soloist, and providing conducting workshops to teachers and conductors in the Townsville area.
Raymond is also a sought-after piano soloist and accompanist. Concert highlights include Chamber Music performances at the Musica Viva, Huntington Festival, the Linari Classic in Italy, as well as piano concerto engagements with the Melbourne Symphony, the Sydney Symphony, West Australian and Tasmanian Symphony Orchestras.
Jennifer Bradstreet 
(Flute)	
Jennifer Bradstreet completed a Bachelor of Music with Honours at the Sydney Conservatorium, before taking up a summer scholarship at St Andrews and Oxford in the UK, and then moving to London in 2010. She became a student at the Royal College of Music under British flautist Susan Milan, and graduated with a Postgraduate Diploma of Performance in 2011. 
While in London, she played in side-by-side projects with the London Symphony and was invited onto the prestigious BBC Symphony Orchestral pathway. Many summer scholarships and international master-classes followed, in Germany, England and Italy.
In 2013, Jennifer accepted a Masters scholarship under James Kortum and Aldo Baerten (Belgium) at the Sydney Conservatorium, where she will complete her studies this year. She was a finalist in the 2013 Australian Flute Festival Orchestral Flute Competition and first-prize winner in the 2014 Australian Concerto & Vocal Competition (all instruments). She is active as a soloist and chamber musician, and also performs regularly with the Australian Opera and Ballet Orchestra in Sydney, with whom she has freelanced since 2013.
Leah Li 
(Harp)	
Leah Li	Townsville based harpist Leah Xiang Li enjoys a diverse career as an orchestral and chamber musician, soloist, instrumental teacher and primary school language teacher. 
Leah graduated from the Queensland Conservatorium Griffith University under the tutelage of Sebastien Lipman. She was the recipient of Ross Peters 4MBS Chamber Music Prize and performed for the Honourable Dame Quentin Bryce (former Governor-General of Australia). She was also the principal harpist for Australian International Symphony Orchestra Institution, Queensland Youth Symphony Orchestra, Queensland Conservatorium Symphony Orchestra and Queensland Conservatorium Opera Orchestra.
Leah‘s repertoire spans from the Baroque to the present day. She has a special interest in Jazz and is seeking to fulfil this passion through further study. Leah is also dedicated to education, community outreach and musical advocacy as demonstrated by her current involvement in Barrier Reef Orchestra.
Richard McIntyre, OAM, BMus (University of Sydney) 
Conductor/Bassoonist 
Richard has maintained a long and distinguished career as bassoonist, music educator, conductor and arranger. A Composition graduate from Sydney University, he was appointed Associate Principal Bassoon with the Sydney Symphony Orchestra as a 20-year-old in 1968, moving to The Canberra School of Music as a foundation member of the Canberra Wind Soloists in 1978. With this renowned quintet, he recorded and toured internationally during a 30-year period, and gave it a unique repertoire with his virtuoso arrangements of large-scale orchestral works. He was for many years Principal Bassoon with the Australian Chamber Orchestra, and appeared on many occasions as guest Principal Bassoon with most of the Symphony Australia Orchestras - also as concerto soloist, and independently as a recitalist. 
His continuing work as Principal Bassoon with the Canberra Symphony Orchestra dates back to student days of 1965 - 67. If you'd like to hear some of his work as bassoonist, chamber musician, and arranger, you'll find it on YouTube under Canberra Wind Soloists.
Simultaneously, he has sustained a career as one of Australia's most respected bassoon teachers, at all levels from beginner to post-graduate and professional. In addition he has worked tirelessly in the development of orchestral and ensemble skills with students of all instruments, particularly at the advanced tertiary level. He was for many years a regular tutor and conductor at the Australian Youth Orchestra's National Music Camps. He has taught over many years in south-east Asia. 
His work as a conductor is well-known, particularly in Canberra. He was Conductor and Musical Director of the Canberra Youth Orchestra from 1980 - 1990, greatly broadening its repertoire and general endeavour, and led it on three highly-successful and widely-acclaimed European tours. His Canberra contribution has included development of and much work with the School of Music Orchestra, Canberra Opera, Canberra Philharmonic Society, thirteen-years as Musical Director of The Llewellyn Choir (with development of its accompanying professional ensemble, The Canberra Chamber Orchestra), and three years as Musical Director of The Oriana Chorale. 
His numerous conducting activities outside of Canberra have included the foundation and development of the Barrier Reef Orchestra, with which he continues his association as Artistic Advisor and frequent conductor. 
His 35-year career at the Canberra (now ANU) School of Music played a significant part in the creation of its erstwhile international reputation. Awards have included 1986 Canberran of the Year, Advance Australia, Sounds Australian, and National Critics' Circle awards. In 1992 he was granted an Order of Australia Medal, for services to Music and Music Education, particularly for his work with the Canberra Youth Orchestra. In 2013, he was elected President of the Australian Double Reed Society.
Mario Dobernig 
(Conductor)	
Mario Dobernig grew up in a small village in the Austrian Alps before establishing his professional career as a percussionist in Graz (Austria) and Helsinki (Finland) where he worked extensively with many chamber orchestras and with ensembles such as the Graz Opera, Finnish Radio Symphony Orchestra, the Tapiola Sinfonietta and the Avanti chamber orchestra. 
Mario graduated from the Art University Graz and the Sibelius Academy Helsinki. He also holds a Master’s degree in Musicology from the University of Helsinki. Mario moved to Melbourne to pursue his conducting studies with John Hopkins OBE at the University of Melbourne, where he completed a Master of Music in Conducting in 2009. He is currently completing his PhD at the University of Melbourne, where he produces a performance edition of Peggy Glanville-Hicks’s opera Nausicaa. 
In 2011, Mario conducted Stravinsky’s Histoire du Soldat for the Woodend Winter Arts Festival, which was broadcasted on ABC classic FM. Mario has conducted ensembles at the University of Melbourne, the Victorian College of the Arts Symphony Orchestra, the Youth Philharmonic Melbourne, the Ballarat Symphony, the Ballarat Wind Orchestra, the Preston Symphony and the Kooyong Chamber Players. Since 2012 Mario is the resident conductor of the Preston Symphony and the Musical Director of Victoria Chorale. He really enjoys making music with the Barrier Reef Orchestra.
Bronwyn Douglass 
(Mezzo-soprano)	
Bronwyn is a Mezzo-soprano who comes from Milton on the coast of NSW. She is currently the holder of the Amelia Joscelyne Memorial Scholarship with the Dame Nellie Melba Trust. 
Bronwyn graduated with a Masters in Operatic Performance from the Queensland Conservatorium in 2014, also receiving an award for Academic Excellence and the Wagner Society Encouragement Award. She attended the Lisa Gasteen National Opera School from 2013 – 2015 as well as undertaking the Mediterranean Opera Studio Programme held in Caltigirone in Sicily. 
Bronwyn has performed many operatic roles in Queensland and New South Wales. She has also performed as the Alto Soloist for the Queensland Symphony Orchestra for their 2015 Performance of the Messiah and in Vivaldi’s Gloria for the 4MBS Festival of classics in 2014.
Bronwyn has received many awards, a Finalist in the Sun aria in 2015, winner of the Royal Melbourne Philharmonic Aria in 2015. She has also been placed in several competitions. In 2015 she was awarded the Champion of Champions Vocal Soloist at the North Queensland Eisteddfod and that year also won the Open Vocal Solo at the Australian Concerto and Vocal Competition. As part of that award she sang with the Barrier Reef Orchestra at the T150 Concert.
Yoshika Masuda 
(Cello)	
Born in Kobe, Japan, Yoshika Masuda first started to play the cello at the age of five. Following studies with George Pedersen in Australia, he went on to study at the Royal Northern College of Music in Manchester on a full scholarship. Yoshika was recently awarded first prize at both the Australian Concerto & Vocal Competition and the YMF National Debut Concerto Competition, and is also the winner of the Yamaha Music Foundation of Europe String Award. He has also won top prizes at the Sydney Cello Award, Australian National Youth Concerto Competition and the J.A. Beare International Solo Bach Competition. Yoshika has performed concertos and recitals throughout Australia, Austria, France, Italy, Japan, the UK and USA.
Yoshika gained his Bachelor of Music with first class honours from the RNCM, receiving both the Sir John Munduell Principals’ Prize and the Leonard Rose Cello Award for outstanding achievement. He also completed his Master of Music at the RNCM with distinction the following year.
Yoshika is currently continuing his studies in Los Angeles as a Doctorate student. Yoshika’s cello is a fine Carl Becker model (1930), loaned to him from a private foundation.

Stefan Cassomenos 
Mark Shiell 
Mark Shiell
James Morrison 
James Morrison	Sean O'Boyle 
Sean O'Boyle
Rebecca Chan 
Rebecca Chan	Blair Harris 
Blair Harris
David Lawrence 
David Lawrence	Ji Won Kim 
Ji Won Kim
 Orchestra image
Life Members 

Jacinta Payne 
Life Member since May 2015
Jacinta has been part of the Orchestra from the beginning when she played 1st Clarinet at the first performance on Sunday, 29th October 2000. 
She has been on the management committee and was a voluntary manager of the Orchestra. 
Jacinta has had the task of being Rehearsal Conductor on many occasions and conducted a performance in 2004. 
Over the years, through her teaching she has been able to encourage many players to join the Orchestra and has mentored many young woodwind players.

Alan Nixon 
Life Member since May 2015
Alan has been Secretary of North Queensland Ensembles Inc. /Barrier Reef Orchestra for eight years. He is a former Commonwealth Government officer mainly in the Commonwealth Employment Service and prior to retirement he was the Department's Zone Manager for North Queensland. This expertise has served the Orchestra well as Alan has facilitated North Queensland Ensembles becoming incorporated and was also Secretary at the time when we employed our first Orchestra Manager. 
Alan has a background in community service having been a member of both Australian Jaycees and Rotary. He has also had long experience as an actor, producer and Committee member with several little theatre groups across the State.

Stephen Frewen-Lord 
Life Member since May 2015
Stephen has been involved with the Barrier Reef Orchestra since its inception; having played as concert master in the orchestra’s inaugural concert in 2000. Since then, he has missed only a couple of Barrier Reef Orchestra concerts, and has been concert master for most concerts. 
When not rehearsing with the BRO, Stephen is involved in a number of ensembles around Townsville. He manages and plays with the Melaleuca String Quartet, directed Strings Non Troppo, and plays in Double Play – a guitar/violin duo. Stephen has had regular involvement with the Mulkadee Arts Festival, and performs regularly in community events such as Eco Fiesta, Riverfest, Heritage Day and Stable on the Strand. 
In his role as concert master over the past 15 years, Stephen has enjoyed many discussions with guest conductors concerning the artistic direction of the orchestra. As a string teacher, he has encouraged many young string players to become regular members of the orchestra. Stephen loves his involvement with the orchestra, and is delighted to be joined by young players who share his passion for music. Stephen is looking forward to passing on the baton to the next BRO concert master!

Jenny Carr 
Life Member since July 2010
Jenny Carr came to Australia from Scotland in the early 70s and instantly became an integral part of the Townsville music scene as a pianist and instrumental music teacher. In 1998 when the decision was made to establish a community orchestra, Jenny worked as librarian, performer and for many years as Manager. In conjunction with Donna McMahon and Susan Linge (from the Civic Theatre), they arranged a series of concerts for the emerging orchestra. She also played with the orchestra when a pianist was needed. As Manager, she was involved in all aspects of handling the orchestra's music and checking attendances. In later years, Jenny worked as Adjudicator’s Assistant for the Australian Vocal and Concerto Competition.

Carol Dall'Osto 
Life Member since July 2010
Carol has been a leading figure in music performances in Townsville for many years despite living in Ingham until the early 2000s when she moved to Townsville. Carol is a piano teacher, accompanist, and musical director of the Australian Concerto and Vocal Competition which she has led since 1991.She was involved with the others in the formation of the Barrier Reef Orchestra, and was chairperson of the North Queensland Ensembles Committee (the parent organization for the Orchestra), a position she held until 2003.

Donna McMahon 
Life Member since July 2010
Donna has been a leader in the Townsville music community since she arrived in 1973 fresh from the Conservatorium to teach strings for Education Queensland. Until 2009 she has also been involved with the Townsville Youth Orchestra, the Australian String Teachers’ Association, the Australian Concerto & Vocal Competition, and lately of course the Barrier Reef Orchestra. Apart from being one of the prime movers in the formation of the BRO, she has been performer, rehearsal conductor, musical advisor & visiting conductor liaison. In 2009 she was rehearsal conductor, played with the orchestra, and managed the music library. She recently graduated with a Master’s Degree in Music from James Cook University.

David Pearse 
Life Member since June 2006
David was heavily involved with the Townsville music scene from the 1970s, including the formation of the BRO in 1999. He was made a Life Member by the Committee in June 2006, when he and his wife Elizabeth left Townsville to live in Canberra.

About us
North Queensland Ensembles Inc. is an Incorporated Association registered in the State of Queensland. 
It is also a tax deductible fund listed on the Register of Cultural Organisations under Subdivision 30-B of the Income tax Assessment Act 1997. It is based in Townsville, North Queensland and Australia.
 Orchestra image
North Queensland Ensembles Inc. Management Committee 2015-2016
 	
President:	Andrew Ryder
Vice-President:	Judy Hunter
Secretary:	Lorraine Gray-McConnell
Treasurer:	Annette Ellis
Committee:	Gai Copeman
Suzanne Darrigan
Simon McConnell
Helen Land
Marg Naylor
Ron Piper
Noel Price
Orchestra Manager:	Sally Frewen-Lord

History of the Orchestra 
Over a two-year period in the late nineties, Townsville musicians, arts workers and a group of people who had a love for music realised the potential for developing a community-based Orchestra — one that would flourish and become an integral part of the City’s cultural life. 
In 2000 to ‘test’ the viability of establishing an Orchestra a weekend workshop was arranged and musicians were invited to participate under the baton of Richard McIntyre, Senior Lecturer at the Canberra School of Music and the result — the Barrier Reef Orchestra was born. 
During the past few years, the Orchestra has performed with the comedy-duo Scared Weird Little Guys in Score, Townsville City Council’s Last Night of the Proms and A Christmas Carol. In 2003 the Council’s centenary year the Orchestra took part in Encore, as well as playing a major role in the Townsville Civic Theatre’s 25th Anniversary productions of Noye’s Fludde and Carmina Burana. 
In a typical year the Barrier Reef Orchestra, under the auspices of North Queensland Ensembles Inc., performs three times generally with a guest conductor and occasionally with other performing groups. Smaller ensembles, all utilising players from the Orchestra, regularly give concerts — Orpheus Strings, Pandanus Winds, Kingfisher Trio, Centenary Concert Band and the Barrier Reef Chamber Orchestra. In 2004, the Orchestra presented its first subscription series of three concerts receiving sponsorship from Queensland Nickel – Yabulu. 
The high standard is due in no small measure to the guidance and inspiration of our founding Patron, Professor John Hopkins OBE and conductor Richard McIntyre OAM. 
In 2006 the orchestra became a truly North Queensland orchestra when in March a number of string players from Cairns travelled to Townsville to rehearse under Professor Hopkins for the planned Tchaikovsky concert. Unfortunately, the interruption of Cyclone Larry prevented the repeat performance scheduled for Cairns. 

The final concert for 2006, ‘Amadeus’, celebrated the life of this great composer in his 250th anniversary year. The Barrier Reef Orchestra could think of no better way in which to celebrate their sixth anniversary! 
2007 
In 2007 BRO performed the Beethoven Triple Concerto with visiting Seraphim Trio from Melbourne. The orchestra repeated the concert in Cairns with no Cyclone Larry this time! 
A string ensemble drawn from the larger orchestra was invited by Piers Lane the new Director of the AFCM, to perform for the first time in the Australian Festival of Chamber Music, accompanying Australian Opera Baritone Peter Coleman-Wright, a very successful concert. 
The Governor of Queensland became the patron of the Orchestra joining the founding patron Professor John Hopkins to inspire the further development of the orchestra and the year culminated in a sell-out concert featuring James Morrison, conductor Sean O’Boyle, jazz vocalist Emma Pask and a collaboration with Townsville Brass and the rhythm section from the amazing 1 RAR Band. The event of the year! 
2008 
In 2008 this last concert generated an award from the Townsville City Council as "Best Musical Event 2007" and after a mammoth launch at the Townsville City Council Chambers the year began with a concert under the baton of visiting UK conductor Mark Eager. This was a collaboration with a combined High Schools orchestra and demonstrated the depth of musical talent flowing up from the district's excellent Instrumental Music programs. The concert culminated in BRO combining with the high school orchestra for a stirring 1812 Overture! 
Then followed a terrific concert featuring Matthew Rigby, the 2007 winner of the North Queensland Concerto and Vocal Competition, conducted by John Hopkins OBE, continuing a fruitful collaboration promoting young rising musicians. 
This was closely followed by a 2008 performance at the AFCM with the orchestra ensemble playing a Carl Vine composition "The Battlers" which was conducted by the composer. 
Also at this occasion the orchestra accompanied Innisfail-born, London-based concert pianist Piers Lane. The orchestra greatly appreciates such opportunities to perform alongside such inspiring artists. 
Conductor Richard McIntyre returned with rising Oboist Megan Billing and BRO to perform in Slavonic Swoon, featuring works by Dvorak, Smetana and Martinu. 
2008 culminated in the return of Sean O'Boyle who brought with him James Morrison, Emma Pask and Catherine Lynagh (Qld Piano Competition winner) and another collaboration with 1RAR musicians. 
2009 
The Barrier Reef Orchestra proudly announced that Her Excellency, the Governor of Queensland Penelope Wensley agreed to be patron of our orchestra. 
2009 was a year of highs and lows for the Barrier Reef Orchestra...
Our first concert in March was conducted by Richard McIntyre but we had pre-concert drama as our soloist had to retire due to injury. We fortunately were able to get Marcus Stocker at the last minute to play the Dvorak concerto. The program of Dvorak and Sibelius challenged the orchestra but the challenge and drama became greater due to the failure of the air-conditioning at Riverway. 
With the venue getting hotter and hotter during rehearsal we had to decide whether to go ahead or cancel the event. We decided to go ahead and most of our loyal audience stayed with us but it was hard going. Rick who is from cold Canberra certainly got a feel of the tropics that night as did everyone that attended. 
Our midyear concert had to be cancelled due to the majority of the orchestra going away for a music camp. Very few cities the size of Townsville attempt to produce an orchestra and while Townsville is musically very strong we certainly stretched the music fraternity too far at that time. 
Our October concert was to feature Ji Won Kim who had won the previous Australian Vocal and Concerto Competition here in Townsville. However, her blossoming career had her overseas at the time, and made her unavailable for that concert. She has since gone on to win the ABC’s Young Performer of the Year Award. We now look forward to hearing her play in our next concert in March 2010. 
Our guest conductor Sean O’Boyle knew the perfect singers to do a “Last Night at the Proms” concert. This concert was a great success! It featured the Townsville Oratorio Choir, the full orchestra, Sean O’Boyle conducting and also included guest piper, Ray Sutton, guest tenor, Gregory Moore and Canadian soprano, Suzanne Kompass at the Civic Theatre. 
2010 
As promised, Ji Won Kim duly performed in our March Concert Romantic Interludes at the Riverway Arts Centre. This well attended concert featured Beethoven Violin Concerto with Ji Won giving a stunning performance. The concert also included Schubert’s Rosamunde Overture and the “unfinished” Symphony No. 8 by Schubert. Conductor was Professor John Hopkins. 
The string section of the Orchestra played at our major sponsor Queensland Nickel’s Open Day in May. 
In July we celebrated our 10th anniversary with a concert conducted by Richard McIntyre who also conducted the first Barrier Reef Orchestra ten years ago. This was an afternoon tea concert with table settings of ten at Jupiter’s Hotel Ballroom with high tea served at interval. It was a mixed program intended to suit the occasion with two pieces repeated from the first concert and highlighting the talents of nine local musicians as soloists including John Coulton from London on trumpet (but as an ex Pimlico High Student still counted as local). This concert was extremely well received and also included the distribution of the newly published 10 year commemorative history of the Orchestra prepared by Jean Dartnall. 
Our October concert featured the 2009 Australian Concerto and Vocal Competition winner Rebecca Chan. It was held at Dancenorth Studio with Professor John Hopkins conducting. Rebecca gave a memorable performance of Mozart Violin Concerto No. 4 and Vaughn Williams Lark Ascending. The concert was at 5:00pm and titled Twilight Classics with a varied program including Delibes, Elgar and Grainger. An end of year BBQ followed for members and guests. As special guest performers we also had Pimlico Chamber Strings who gave a short recital which demonstrated the talents that won them the Queensland Fanfare Award for 2010. 
2011 
We have had a notable and rewarding year which saw the Orchestra include other arts groups to great advantage – three choirs, 1RAR Band and Townsville Cinema Group were all involved with us this year. The three concerts attracted a total of 1,457 patrons and two were full houses. 
On Tuesday, 16th August the great Beethoven 9th Symphony was played at Townsville Civic Theatre with Conductor David Lawrence and soloists from Brisbane and Mackay and the Spirit of the Voice Choir: a full house and a standing ovation. The young choristers of Allegretto choirs provided an entertaining first half before many proud parents and a receptive audience, this concert was however all about Beethoven’s 9th and under the enthusiastic, at times athletic, leadership of British Conductor David Lawrence the orchestra, soloists and the choir gave a dramatic performance. 
The concert was a major musical and logistical challenge presenting this great work for the first time in Townsville (probably for the first time anywhere in regional Australia). The concert attracted both new audience and new orchestra members and was a greatly rewarding experience for performers and audience alike. It also won the 2011 Performance of the Year trophy at the Townsville City Council Arts Awards. 
Our final concert had the Barrier Reef Orchestra Going to the Movies at Riverway Arts Centre. Orchestra Manager, Andrew Ryder was the originator and Conductor and it featured members of the 1 RAR Band and visual images were organised by Townsville Cinema Group 
A concert with a difference – performed in semi- darkness with both still and moving images projected to accompany the varied program of familiar and memorable movie music. Gabriel’s Oboe was a highlight as was the classic Tom and Jerry cartoon. A very well received concert, also one that drew many new faces. 
March this year had a Russian theme and the sold out concert at Riverway was conducted by our artistic patron, Richard McIntyre and featured 2011 Australian Concerto and Vocal Competition winner Edwina George playing the Prokofiev Violin Concerto No. 2. It also had a small harp solo played by a special guest and international harpist Sebastien Lipman in the Nutcracker Suite by Tchaikovsky. 
A bonus concert was a recent as this last week when the Orchestra played the 1812 Overture at the Kapyong Day Official Parade along with the 1RAR Band and live cannons at Lavarack Barracks. 
In 2010 we appointed a paid part time manager; this has now run for two years and has proven most beneficial. Our first manager Andrew Ryder resigned after the October concert due to other work commitments and he has been replaced by Sally Frewen-Lord. I wish to thank Andrew for his great contribution to the year’s success. 
Our publicity has improved over the year with both the presentation and numbers of posters and banners increasing. The use of reusable banners re-branded for each concert is proving to be a big saving. Another advance in 2011 was the acquisition of music scores and parts for a BRO repertoire. When these pieces can be included in the rehearsal schedule we will have the ability to fill unforeseen performance opportunities on quite short notice. 
Sponsorship support in 2011 was excellent and combined with good box office numbers has enabled us to further build up our cash reserves which two years ago were dangerously low. 

Queensland Nickle, Townsville City Council and the Wheeler Family Charitable Gift Fund have all continued their generous support of our core activities in 2011. Council funding was changed from an annual funding to a 3 year agreement. 
Two concerts this year had “concert sponsors”. RACQ sponsored the Beethoven 9th Symphony concert and RSL N.Q. District the Barrier Reef Orchestra Goes to the Movies concert. In both cases the respective organisation’s members received concession admission prices as part of the arrangement. 
We were also supported during the year with cash or in kind assistance from Kowari Motors, Signs of Excellence, ASAP Printers, Sturt Business Centre, The Keyboard Shop and Pimlico State High School 
Grants were received from RADF and the Breakwater Island Casino Community Benefit Fund – as well as the repertoire music mentioned before, the Orchestra now have six adjustable cello chairs. Our sincere thanks go to all of our sponsors and we look forward to their continuing support. 
2012 
2012 was a very successful year for the orchestra. We presented three concerts, one at Riverway Arts Centre and two at the Civic Theatre. Each was well received and well patronized – a total of 1,434 patrons between the three concerts. Not only is our audience increasing but so also is the orchestra itself – we have many new players and numbered 65 or more musicians on stage at each concert. Our general membership is also increasing and perhaps reflecting this trend (and the increasing workload) we now have an enthusiastic management committee that is twelve strong. 
The 2012 concert season was very varied. The March concert was conducted by our artistic director Richard McIntyre and was Russian themed – Prokopiev, Rimsky-Korsakov and Tchaikovsky. It featured Edwina George – the 2011 Australian Concerto and Vocal Competition winner as violin soloist and we also had Sebastien Lipman from Brisbane on harp. 
In August we had our first concert with Mario Dobernig conducting. Mario has been rehearsing the orchestra for the last couple of days and will conduct the coming March concert and also the two musical interludes which we have for you today. 
The concert last August featured Beethoven’s Emperor Concerto with Raymond Yong on piano and also the New World Symphony. It was an excellent performance, very well received by the audience who insisted on an encore.  
The November concert was James Morrison Latin Fiesta. This concert was dreamed up by James Morrison and conductor Sean O’Boyle but is reworked for each performance and had previously been performed with the Queensland, Tasmanian and West Australian Orchestras. Our performance is the only one with a community orchestra. The concert was great fun for both the orchestra and the large audience. It was also particularly pleasing to welcome ten members of 1RAR band who joined us as musical partners in this performance. 
2013 
In 2013 we staged three successful concerts with a total audience of 1200 patrons. In March the “Works of Art” concert was a sell-out at Riverway. Mussorgsky, Strauss and Haydn with conductor Mario Dobernig was well received by an appreciative audience. 
In August we had the well named “Contrasts” concert with conductor Raymond Yong and a program varying from Beethoven to Sculthorpe and featuring Elgar’s Cello Concerto with Australian Concerto and Vocal Competition winner Yoshika Masuda. This concert was also presented at the Burdekin Theatre, our first performance at another centre for many years. The concert was also notable for our collaboration with Umbrella Studio and ABC Open which resulted in a photo artists group forming to produce a video of images to accompany Schulthorpe’s Mangrove. 
We provided an ensemble to play at Anzac Park in September as part of the Bandstand Centenary event and then in October we presented Hats off to Gilbert and Sullivan. This was a quite demanding production devised and conducted by Richard McIntyre and involved 80 singers from North Queensland Opera and Music Theatre and Townsville Choral Society. The chorus combined with a sizable orchestra well and truly filled the Civic stage for what was essentially a Gilbert and Sullivan tribute show featuring excerpts from three operettas tied together by a narrator.
2013 saw us maintain our membership numbers and our financial position remained strong. We cover approximately 60% of our expenditure from box office income (which is considered to be very good by not-for-profit arts organisation standards) and the remainder is covered by grants, sponsorship and philanthropy. 
Townsville City Council continues to be our principal sponsor with a generous grant that covers our on-going core operational expenses. The Wheeler Family Charitable Gift Fund has also continued its strong support and it was pleasing to welcome Wilmar Sugar as a new sponsor in 2013. Wilmar are supporting us in our Burdekin performance initiative. Great in-kind support has continued from Sturt Business Centre, ASAP Printers, Signs of Excellence and the Australian Concerto and Vocal Competition. 
A new fund raising approach in 2013 was our Benefactors appeal. This has had a good start with 17 benefactors currently enrolled and the first renewals about to commence. I believe this particular avenue of fund raising will strengthen over time and prove to be a very reliable source of income provided it is proactively managed. 
2013 saw our first encouragement awards. Two young orchestra members – Craig Land and Lexie Gorton – each received a well-deserved $500 award in recognition of their enthusiastic participation in the orchestra and their musical development. I am pleased that the committee is continuing the encouragement awards in 2014. 
2014
In 2013 we staged three successful concerts with a total audience of 1200 patrons. 
In March the “Works of Art” concert was a sell-out at Riverway. Mussorgsky, Strauss and Haydn with conductor Mario Dobernig was well received by an appreciative audience. 
In August we had the well named “Contrasts” concert with conductor Raymond Yong and a program varying from Beethoven to Sculthorpe and featuring Elgar’s Cello Concerto with Australian Concerto and Vocal Competition winner Yoshika Masuda. This concert was also presented at the Burdekin Theatre, our first performance at another centre for many years. The concert was also notable for our collaboration with Umbrella Studio and ABC Open which resulted in a photo artists group forming to produce a video of images to accompany Schulthorpe’s Mangrove. 

We provided an ensemble to play at Anzac Park in September as part of the Bandstand Centenary event and then in October we presented Hats off to Gilbert and Sullivan. This was a quite demanding production devised and conducted by Richard McIntyre and involved 80 singers from North Queensland Opera and Music Theatre and Townsville Choral Society. The chorus combined with a sizable orchestra well and truly filled the Civic stage for what was essentially a Gilbert and Sullivan tribute show featuring excerpts from three operettas tied together by a narrator. 
2013 saw us maintain our membership numbers and our financial position remained strong. We cover approximately 60% of our expenditure from box office income (which is considered to be very good by not-for-profit arts organisation standards) and the remainder is covered by grants, sponsorship and philanthropy. 
Townsville City Council continues to be our principal sponsor with a generous grant that covers our on-going core operational expenses. The Wheeler Family Charitable Gift Fund has also continued its strong support and it was pleasing to welcome Wilmar Sugar as a new sponsor in 2013. Wilmar are supporting us in our Burdekin performance initiative. Great in-kind support has continued from Sturt Business Centre, ASAP Printers, Signs of Excellence and the Australian Concerto and Vocal Competition. 
A new fund raising approach in 2013 was our Benefactors appeal. This has had a good start with 17 benefactors currently enrolled and the first renewals about to commence. I believe this particular avenue of fund raising will strengthen over time and prove to be a very reliable source of income provided it is proactively managed. 
2013 saw our first encouragement awards. Two young orchestra members – Craig Land and Lexie Gorton – each received a well-deserved $500 award in recognition of their enthusiastic participation in the orchestra and their musical development. I am pleased that the committee is continuing the encouragement awards in 2014. 
I would like to thank all the players who together produced such excellent performances in 2013. Our audience is growing and the quality of our concerts is certainly one of the reasons for this. I would also like to acknowledge the hard working committee who do so much behind the scenes. Particular thanks are due to Alan Nixon who is now retiring after seven years as Secretary and to Annette Ellis who has been Treasurer for seven years and is continuing in that position. Special mention must also be made of Stephen Frewen-Lord’s continuing role as Concert Master and the tireless efforts of several rehearsal conductors. 
As I am now retiring as President this is my last report. Over the last five years it has been gratifying to see the Barrier Reef Orchestra make considerable progress. In 2009 the orchestra was in the doldrums. It was drawing an audience of 150 or less, had less than $10,000 in cash reserves and performed as an orchestra of about 40 players. In fact the mid-year concert in 2009 was cancelled because we simply could not muster the players required for the concert program. We are now drawing a audience of 300 to 400 if not more, have cash reserves around $70,000 and field an orchestra of 60 to 70 players, depending on the program. We have also had a paid manager for several years and our current manager Sally Frewen-Lord has achieved organisational wonders. This transformation has occurred only because of the great effort that has been put in over years by managers, members both playing and non-playing, by committee members and by sponsors, supporters and philanthropists, so it is very much a team effort. 
I am confident that this enthusiasm and support will continue under Andrew Ryder’s presidency and the orchestra will retain and enhance its position as one of the leading organizations in Townsville’s arts community. 

Comments:
•	Error with the 2014 section of About Us, it’s pretty much all information about 2013 and repeating info: I suggest we get rid of 2014 entirely, remove the repeating parts then merge the info into 2013.
•	Word suggested different ways to spell last names, I assumed that this is how you actually spell the last names and left it.
•	Shouldn’t be any more spelling mistakes, if anyone wants to read through it to check if I have missed anything, just mainly check for grammar in particular placement of commas.
